+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-13"
description = "Bank of Canada asks retailers to continue accepting cash"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Bank of Canada asks retailers to continue accepting cash"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

During this time of heightened public health measures intended to limit
the transmission of COVID-19, some consumers and businesses are choosing
not to use cash to limit potential exposure. The Bank recognizes that
these measures are being taken with the safety and well-being of both
staff and consumers in mind.

## Cash acceptance

We encourage Canadians to use the method of payment that they are the
most comfortable with. However, the Bank strongly advocates that
retailers continue to accept cash to ensure Canadians have access to the
goods and services they need. Refusing cash purchases outright will put
an undue burden on those who depend on cash and have limited payment
[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/).

“There are many individuals who, for a variety of reasons, do not have
access to credit or debit cards and must pay with coins and bills. We
know that SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) can stick to surfaces for a few hours to
a few days, and this may include hard currency,” said Dr. Isaac Bogoch,
an infectious diseases physician and scientist with the Toronto General
Hospital Research Institute. “Still, we can find ways to ensure that all
Canadians have access to essential goods and services, even if they are
using cash. Risk can be mitigated in retail settings using a variety of
methods, including ensuring access to hand hygiene for all employees.”

## Safe handling

It’s important to keep in mind that the risks posed from handling cash
are no greater than those posed by touching other common surfaces like
doorknobs, kitchen counters and handrails. Canadians handling cash
should follow the [public health guidelines on COVID-19][1] and wash
their hands often, as they would do for other activities.

If individuals want to take additional safety precautions, it is also
possible to clean polymer bank notes with a bit of soap and water since
they are resistant to moisture. Note that this is not the case for older
paper notes.

## Access to cash

The Bank is working with financial institutions to ensure that there is
no disruption to the cash supply during this exceptional time so
Canadians can continue to have access to cash when they need it.

_This announcement, originally posted on March 18, 2020, was updated on
April 13 with information on cash acceptance and safe handling._

   1. trk.cp20.com/click/6fkf-1w146c-mfiotr-2f6og9s4/