+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-06"
description = "Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations-First Quarter of 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations-First Quarter of 2020"
type = "post"
+++

## Household finance, credit and house prices

As with their expectations for wage growth, consumers’ expectations for
growth of household income went up slightly in the first quarter of
2020, remaining below the peak observed in the first half of 2018 (Chart
5). Expectations for spending growth edged up and continued to surpass
expectations for income growth, suggesting that consumers may reduce
saving or take on more debt. These expectations offer little evidence
that consumers, in aggregate, were becoming more cautious in their
spending. Consumers’ expectations for interest rates in two and five
years from now increased, with a greater increase in rates two years
from now (Chart 6). This increase likely reflects the fact that interest
rate expectations were collected between January 29 and February 19,
2020, before concerns about COVID‑19 became prevalent. Consumers’
expectations for the rate of growth in house prices edged up in the
first quarter in Canada overall (Chart 7). These expectations increased
in Ontario, although they stayed below the highs reached in 2018.
Expected growth in house prices also went up in Quebec, but it
stabilized in British Columbia and remained weak in Alberta and
Saskatchewan.