+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-11"
description = "Scholarship Awards"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Scholarship Awards"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

## General scholarship awards

These Awards are designed to assist students with disabilities,
Indigenous students and those who identify as a person of colour or as a
member of a visible minority group or racialized group in furthering
their education and to encourage them to take an interest in fields
related to the work of the Bank—such as:

  * Economics and Finance
  * Administration and Operations
  * Information Technology and Cyber Security
  * Human resources
  * Accounting.

These $4,000 CAD scholarships are awarded to deserving students to help
remove barriers to education and support greater diversity in our
workforce.

### Criteria and applications

#### Application period

The application period is from **May 1 to August 1** , every year.
Applications and supporting documents must be received by 23:59 Eastern
Time on August 1.

#### Accommodation and assistance

Let our team know if you need accommodation or support during the
application or selection processes due to a disability or other reason.
We can provide support in multiple ways, from submitting your
application, right through to the interview process. Contact
[accessiblecareers@bankofcanada.ca][1] to discuss how.

#### Eligibility

To be considered for one of these awards, you must:

  * be a Canadian citizen or permanent resident
  * be pursuing post-secondary or post-graduate studies in a Canadian post-secondary institution, on a full-time or part-time basis, in a field related to the work of the Bank of Canada, including but not limited to:
    * **Economics and Finance:** economics, computer science, mathematics or statistics, commerce/business administration with a finance major
    * **Administration and Operations:** financial services, administration and business, project management, human resources, communications and web, internal audit, currency production, knowledge and information management, security
    * **Information Technology and Cyber Security:** software development, network engineering, solution architecture, project management, business analysis, cyber security
  * have an overall average grade of 70 per cent or higher
  * meet the additional criterial laid out for students with disabilities, Indigenous students, and students who identify as members of a visible minority group
  * submit an online application that includes the following documentation:
    * a current curriculum vitae
    * a cover letter (up to 500 words) about yourself, why you chose your field of study and career interests.
    * official or unofficial transcripts of your academic record. Relevant courses you have attended must be clearly identified by their course titles.

#### For students with disabilities

In addition to the above eligibility criteria, you must self-identify as
a person with a disability. You may wish to consult the definition
included in Canada’s [Employment Equity Act][2]. If you are selected for
the scholarship award, you will be also be required to provide a
Confirmation of Eligibility Form completed by your physician confirming
that you have disability.

[ Apply now ][3]

#### For Indigenous students

In addition to the above eligibility criteria, you must be a Status
Indian, a Non-Status Indian, Inuit or Métis. The Bank of Canada works
with _Indspire_ to manage the scholarship application process for
Indigenous students. Visit their [[website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/)][4] to learn more.

[ Apply now ][4]

#### For students in visible minority groups

In addition to the above eligibility criteria, you must identify as a
member of a visible minority group or racialized group or as a person of
colour. You may wish to consult the definitions included in Canada’s
[Employment Equity Act][2] and the [Canadian Race Relations
Foundation][5].

[ Apply now ][6]

### Work opportunity

The Bank of Canada hires talented students each year. As a shortlisted
candidate in the scholarship selection process, you may be invited to a
secondary interview for consideration for a paid summer or part-time
(during the academic year) work placement at the Bank of Canada.

Work opportunities are determined based on the student’s field of study
and the Bank’s business requirements. Most work placements are at the
Bank’s Head Office in Ottawa; however, recipients may be offered the
option of working at a regional office: Halifax, Montréal, Toronto,
Calgary or Vancouver. Relocation allowance may be provided if required.

### Other [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) and conditions

Candidates selected for the scholarship will be notified within two
months of the application deadline. The initial $4,000 CAD is disbursed
in one instalment once the recipient has accepted the scholarship award.
The scholarship is renewable for up to a maximum of $16,000 CAD over
four years.

We wish to thank all applicants for their interest and effort in
applying for a scholarship award; however, only candidates selected for
interviews will be [contact](https://www.playgroundfx.com/contact/)ed.

If you are considering applying, consult the full [[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) and
conditions][7].

   1. mailto:accessiblecareers@bankofcanada.ca
   2. laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/E-5.401/page-1.html#h-215140
   3. career17.sapsf.com/sfcareer/jobreqcareer?jobId=3841&company=bankofcana&username=
   4. indspire.ca/
   5. www.crrf-fcrr.ca/en/resources/glossary-a-[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/)-en-gb-1/item/22883-visible-minority
   6. career17.sapsf.com/sfcareer/jobreqcareer?jobId=3861&company=bankofcana&username=
   7. www.bankofcanada.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/scholarship-awards-[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/)-conditions.pdf