+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-19"
description = "Business Outlook Survey-Autumn 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Business Outlook Survey-Autumn 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

## Box 1: Flexible logistics solutions are helping manage supply chain
challenges

To better understand the impact of the pandemic on supply chains and the
response of firms that support them, the Bank conducted consultations
with a small, targeted sample of Canadian businesses and associations in
the logistics industry.

### Supply chain challenges

Most firms reported that their operations were immediately and adversely
affected at the onset of the pandemic by:

  * changing consumer demands
  * temporary closures of customer businesses and suppliers domestically and internationally
  * capacity constraints related to transportation, sometimes tied to health guidelines

Overall, many businesses experienced significant slowdowns in sourcing
inputs and in finding transportation and warehousing [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/), among
other issues.

### Mitigating measures and price pressures

The firms consulted noted that, after the shutdown phase early in the
pandemic, they began working closely with suppliers and customers to
address these challenges. Some suppliers reduced their number of product
lines and focused on producing basic items. Large retailers and
wholesalers temporarily sourced products from different suppliers and
identified new delivery [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/). Transportation companies adjusted their
capacity and schedules. Firms also mentioned they have started to hold
higher inventories as a precaution against further supply chain
disruptions. In some regions, this is straining warehouse capacity that
was already tight before the pandemic.

These findings provide evidence that logistics-related processes and
supply chain networks have been flexible in response to the challenges
of the pandemic. This suggests that some of the supply chain issues
reported by firms in the Business Outlook Survey may be temporary.
Mitigating measures will remain in place indefinitely but are
continually being adjusted and are less extensive now than at the onset
of the pandemic.

Most businesses indicated additional costs throughout the supply chain
tied to personal protective equipment, enhanced cleaning and sanitation,
and physical distancing requirements. Retailers also noted increased
costs associated with curbside pickup and direct-to-home delivery
related to the surge in e‑commerce demand. Most firms indicated they
partly pass these costs on to their customers but are limited by
competitive pressures.

### The evolution of supply chains

Several businesses said having shorter supply chains with localized
parts closer to Canada is an ongoing topic of discussion. However, in
the near term, most firms do not expect to pivot away from their
existing processes or relationships. Nor do they expect to make major
changes in their investment strategies. Instead, several firms reported
accelerating their adoption of digital technologies in the near term to
stay competitive and to help further mitigate some of the pandemic-
induced challenges. These technologies will, for example, allow firms to
improve their e‑commerce capabilities, enhance data sharing across
supply chains and increase automation.