+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-19"
description = "Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations-Third Quarter of 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations-Third Quarter of 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

## Labour market

Overall, consumers’ expectations around labour market conditions
continued to be weaker than before the COVID‑19 outbreak. Consumers’
expectations for their wage growth over the next year remained below
pre-pandemic level at 1.9 percent, while perceptions of wage growth over
the past 12 months reached an all-time low of 1.1 percent (Chart 3).

Expectations for employment differed significantly by age group. For
example, respondents between 18 and 24 years of age expect to return to
a normal working schedule much later than those between 25 and 55 years.
If these expectations are correct, younger workers could face the risk
of longer-lasting economic damage (e.g., loss of work experience) from
being out of the labour force for longer.

In contrast, consumers’ expectations for keeping or finding a new job
improved modestly, consistent with the strong job recovery since the
economy reopened in May and June (Chart 4). Despite a small improvement,
the reported likelihood of voluntarily leaving a job remained much
weaker than before the outbreak, suggesting that concerns about the
health of the labour market are still elevated. If this results in less
turnover, it could lower the quality of job-worker matching, leading to
lower future productivity and wage growth.