+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-18"
description = "Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations-Third Quarter of 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian Survey of Consumer Expectations-Third Quarter of 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

## Canadians feel more confident about the labour market

Although weaker than before the pandemic, consumer expectations for
labour market conditions have improved. The reported likelihood of
voluntarily leaving a job increased to pre-pandemic levels (Chart 4).
This suggests that some people are more willing to change jobs now that
the economy has reopened and vaccination rates have increased. It could
also reflect pent-up demand for changing jobs. That is, some workers may
have delayed looking for a different job while labour markets were weak
earlier in the pandemic and when people were more concerned about the
virus.

More respondents than before the pandemic would like to change jobs to
obtain suitable hours (e.g., more hours, fewer hours or regular hours),
and some would like to move to a different industry (Box 1). High job
turnover tends to be associated with improved labour market conditions,
and Canadians’ expectations for finding a job are now near pre-pandemic
levels.

Canadians’ expectations for losing their job remain somewhat higher than
they were before the crisis. And while perceptions of the labour market
are improving, vulnerabilities remain, notably among visible minorities,
Indigenous people and people with disabilities (Box 2). Respondents from
Alberta also continue to express higher probabilities of losing their
job than other Canadians.