+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-01"
description = "Statement by Governor Poloz on Announcement of New Governor"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Statement by Governor Poloz on Announcement of New Governor"
type = "post"
+++

Let me begin by thanking the directors for conducting an extensive and
thorough search for the tenth Governor of the Bank of Canada. They have
done an outstanding job in selecting the next leader to run this
important institution.

The past seven years have been incredibly rewarding professionally and
personally, and equally challenging. I want to thank all Board members,
present and past, for their support, and Minister Morneau for his
leadership and friendship these past few years.

It is bittersweet for me to be leaving this great institution. I’ve had
the time of my life, in my dream job. That said, every Governor
understands that you are a steward, and handing over the reins to
someone as capable as Tiff Macklem means the Bank, and its role
supporting Canadians, is in solid hands. Like me, Tiff grew up in this
organization, and I know that like me, he will serve as a dedicated
steward for the next generation of central bankers. I also know that
Tiff can count on the support and advice of the Bank’s Governing
Council, management, and incredible staff as he takes on this rewarding
role.

On a more personal note, this represents the third time I have welcomed
Tiff to the Bank of Canada, having done so back in 1984, in 1989 after
he completed his PhD, and again today.

I’d like to finish by publicly congratulating you, Tiff, and offering my
sincere best wishes for a successful term as you lead the Bank in the
service of Canadians.