+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-20"
description = "Release of the Financial System Review"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Release of the Financial System Review"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Good morning. Thank you for joining me to discuss the latest issue of
the Bank of Canada’s _Financial System Review_ (FSR), which we published
today.

The purpose of the FSR is to identify and explain key vulnerabilities of
the Canadian financial system. Vulnerabilities need not lead to serious
problems. Some work themselves out before anything bad happens. But the
lesson from [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) is that if left unchecked, financial vulnerabilities
can lead to calamities— either because they amplify negative shocks,
making bad situations worse, or because they become sources of
instability on their own.

We assess vulnerabilities with two aims in mind. The first is better
risk management. By identifying vulnerabilities and outlining how they
could lead to bad outcomes, we hope to raise awareness and
understanding. The better that households, the private sector, financial
authorities and governments   understand the vulnerabilities of the
financial system, the better able they are to manage and defuse them.

But risk can never be eliminated. Shocks are by their nature
unpredictable, so sometimes a bad shock or series of shocks will hit us
before a vulnerability has been managed down. This leads to the second
aim: better crisis management. Effective contingency plans can greatly
reduce the impact of a calamity if one materializes. And the better
understood vulnerabilities are across the financial system, the better
prepared we can all be.

The analysis showcased in the FSR underpins our assessments of the
priorities for strengthening risk management and crisis preparedness.

For the past 14 months, a very extreme event—the COVID-19 pandemic—has
affected people’s health and economic well-being unlike anything we have
seen before. A year ago, we used the FSR to provide analysis of the
early impacts of the pandemic on the Canadian financial system. The
current FSR looks at how things have evolved and highlights short- and
medium-term issues of concern.

I’d like to take a few minutes before answering your questions to touch
on three themes from the FSR: our collective resilience, the need for
continued vigilance, and the imperative to think ahead and act now on
key medium-term vulnerabilities.

The Canadian financial system went into this crisis in a solid position
and has proved to be resilient. This reflects sound risk management
across a range of financial system participants combined with Canada’s
strong regulatory and supervisory framework. Unprecedented [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
support from governments and the Bank has also played a crucial role.
Together, these factors have allowed the financial system not only to
weather the huge shock but also to act as a shock absorber for the
broader economy—by continuing to provide credit and by deferring loan
payments for some households and businesses.

When financial markets seized up in the early weeks of the crisis, the
Bank provided overwhelming liquidity support to the financial system.
This was essential to keep credit flowing. And it worked. Markets
recovered quickly and have been functioning normally for some time.
That’s why in recent months we have wound down our extraordinary market-
making and liquidity facilities.

Still, there are plenty of reasons for all of us to remain vigilant.

Globally, an improving economic outlook and low interest rates have led
to strong [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) appetite for risk, raising the prices of a range of
assets and narrowing credit spreads back to near pre-pandemic levels. A
rapid change in market sentiment—perhaps due to a setback in efforts to
end the pandemic or a stalled economic recovery—could cause a sharp
repricing of risk and a tightening of global financial conditions. That
could spill over into Canada and could interact with existing
vulnerabilities. Wider credit spreads could particularly affect Canadian
companies that rely on high-yield debt markets.

The biggest domestic vulnerabilities are those linked to imbalances in
the housing market and high household indebtedness. These are not new,
but they have intensified because of the unusual circumstances caused by
the pandemic.

With so many Canadians working and studying at home, people want more
space. Consumer preference, combined with low interest rates that make
borrowing more affordable, has boosted demand for single-family homes,
particularly in suburbs and outlying areas of major Canadian cities.
Housing supply has not been able to keep up with this surge in demand,
and this has pushed prices for single-family homes sharply higher in
several markets. Our analysis suggests that in some markets, price
expectations have become extrapolative—meaning people may be rushing to
buy partly because they expect prices to keep rising. This behaviour can
exaggerate near-term house price increases relative to fundamental
demand.

During the pandemic, many households have added to savings and paid down
consumer debt. At the same time, some households have taken on
significantly more mortgage debt. The increased issuance of mortgages
with high loan-to-income ratios is of most concern. At an individual
level, Canadians need to be prudent in taking on new debt. It is
important to understand that the recent rapid increases in home prices
are not normal. Even without a shock, some of the factors that caused
prices to rise fast could reverse later, and that could leave some
households with less equity in their homes. And interest rates are
unusually low. Borrowers and lenders both have roles in ensuring that
households can still afford to service their debt at higher rates.
Counting on ever higher house prices to build home equity that can be
used to refinance mortgages in the future is a bad idea.

In this regard, the proposal by the Office of the Superintendent of
Financial Institutions (OSFI) to introduce a fixed floor to the minimum
qualifying rate for uninsured mortgages is welcome. As well, measures in
the federal budget should help to increase the supply of housing. More
generally, achieving a better balance between demand and supply in the
housing market will be important for reducing these housing-related
vulnerabilities.

In the FSR, we also discuss a number of ongoing issues that we all need
to take seriously now to protect our financial system and economy in the
future.

First among these are climate-related vulnerabilities. The potential
impact of climate risks is generally underappreciated, and they are not
well priced. That means the transition to a low-carbon economy could
leave some [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s and financial institutions exposed to large losses
in the future. In this FSR, we use a new approach to map how severe
weather events and financial vulnerabilities could intersect. We find
that in some parts of the country, particularly British Columbia and
Ontario, households that are highly leveraged are also more exposed to
severe weather events. The Bank, together with OSFI and the financial
sector, is also working to assess the financial-system implications of
different scenarios for the transition to a low-carbon economy. We’re
learning a lot from this work and will publish a report later this year.

A second ongoing vulnerability is fixed-income market liquidity. While
financial markets are currently functioning well, the extreme market
stresses that occurred when the pandemic struck highlighted the
vulnerability of the financial system to sudden spikes in the demand for
liquidity. Over the past decade, the potential demand from the asset-
management industry for market liquidity in periods of stress has
outpaced the capacity of banks to provide it. We are working at both
domestic and international levels to better understand this structural
liquidity vulnerability and how best to improve the resilience of core
funding markets.

Finally, the digital transformation of the economy and the
interconnected nature of the financial system—globally and in
Canada—increase the risks of a cyber attack. The recent ransomware
attack on a top US pipeline operator is a timely illustration. This FSR
discusses a number of cyber security initiatives the Bank is leading.

With that, I would be happy to answer your questions.