+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-14"
description = "Release of the Financial System Review"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Release of the Financial System Review"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

Good morning, and thank you for being with us today. Senior Deputy
Governor Wilkins and I are glad to have the opportunity to discuss the
latest issue of the Bank of Canada’s _Financial System Review_ (FSR),
which we published today.

The traditional purpose of the FSR is to identify key vulnerabilities in
the financial system that can interact with and magnify economic events.
Today, we are facing an extreme event in the form of the COVID-19
pandemic. This FSR gives an in-depth analysis of the impact of COVID-19
on the Canadian financial system and the implications for the economy.

Since the pandemic began, the Bank has focused on keeping financial
markets functioning well. As we said last month in our _Monetary Policy
Report_ (MPR), the short-term goal is to help Canadian households and
businesses bridge the crisis period. The longer-term goal is to provide
a strong foundation for economic recovery. Both of these goals require a
well-functioning financial system to ensure the success of the
extraordinary fiscal response that has been put in place.

Today’s FSR looks at the results of many of the programs the Bank has
implemented since the onset of the pandemic. These programs have
succeeded in restoring good functioning to many key financial markets
that had been showing signs of significant stress. Bid-ask spreads and
yield spreads in many markets have narrowed significantly. Access to
liquidity for financial institutions has greatly improved. And many of
our programs to support financial markets are being used less and less
as conditions stabilize.

That said, considerable uncertainty remains about the future course of
the pandemic and its economic consequences. The Bank will continue to do
what is necessary to keep core financial markets working so that credit
channels remain open for households, businesses and governments. It is
important to remember that our programs and facilities, as well as the
government’s fiscal response, have been designed so that they can expand
in line with the pandemic’s impact.

In addition to the Bank’s programs to support financial markets, we have
cut our [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) interest rate to its effective lower bound. These
reductions, grounded in our inflation-targeting framework, will help
stabilize the economy and employment and lay the foundation for
recovery. Emergency government programs are mitigating income losses for
households and businesses. Enhanced regulatory flexibility is giving
financial institutions greater freedom to continue lending as risks
increase. And banks have been flexible themselves in providing payment
deferrals to many customers.

Today’s FSR analyses the resilience of the financial system in this
unusual context. We find that the country’s banking system and financial
market infrastructures are strong enough to deal with the situation—and
even the more severe economic scenario that we outlined in last month’s
MPR. The resilience of our financial system stems in part from the fact
that our economy was in good shape going into this episode. The economy
was operating near its capacity, inflation was at target and banks were
well-capitalized, with ample access to liquidity.

To be clear, the pandemic remains a massive economic and financial
challenge, possibly the largest of our lifetimes, and it will leave
higher levels of debt in its wake. The right combination of fiscal,
monetary and macroprudential policies can ensure a return to economic
growth and debt sustainability. Further, [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)-makers have taken the
lessons of past crises to heart and acted to strengthen the financial
system. Canada’s adherence to reforms after the 2007–09 global financial
crisis, which strengthened the banking sector, is paying off. I am
confident that a strong financial system will help Canada emerge from
this episode in relatively good shape.

With that, Senior Deputy Governor Wilkins and I would be happy to answer
your questions.