+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-03-24"
description = "COVID-19: Actions to Support the Economy and Financial System"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "COVID-19: Actions to Support the Economy and Financial System"
type = "post"
+++

### Support to key financial markets

We are intervening to support key financial markets to ensure they
continue to function properly.

In times of market turmoil, financial institutions may be reluctant to
act in their normal role as market makers for bonds and other financial
assets. Market makers hold inventories of securities and quote prices at
which they will buy and sell—activities that may become prohibitively
risky when the prices of these securities are fluctuating widely. Buyers
and sellers may then find it difficult to trade—in other words, the
market becomes illiquid.

This is particularly problematic in the case of friction in the market
for Government of Canada bonds, which are often held as the safest
Canadian-dollar asset. Those holding a bond may find it difficult to
sell it to obtain cash, while those wishing to buy a bond for its safety
may be unable to obtain it. Given the central role of Government of
Canada bonds, including as a benchmark for other interest rates, such
market illiquidity can have pervasive effects through the financial
system.

As key financial markets have become strained during this period, the
Bank has established several large-scale asset purchase programs to
increase liquidity in core funding markets.

To address strains in the Government of Canada bond market and to
enhance the effectiveness of all the other actions we have taken to
support core funding markets, we launched a program to purchase
Government of Canada securities in the secondary market.

Financial institutions use Canada Mortgage Bonds (CMBs) to finance their
mortgage lending to Canadian homeowners. The functioning of this market
was also becoming impaired amid broader market turmoil. In response, the
Bank of Canada introduced a program of purchasing CMBs. This helps
provide the means for financial institutions to renew mortgages during
this period, as well as supports the flow of credit more generally.

This program supports the market for bankers' acceptances, a key source
of financing for small and medium-sized corporate borrowers.

This program is an asset purchase facility that supports a liquid and
well-functioning market for short-term provincial borrowing.

This program supports the flow of credit to the economy by alleviating
strains in Canada’s commercial paper markets, a key source of short-term
financing to support the ongoing needs of a wide range of firms and
public authorities.

This facility aims to counter severe market-wide liquidity stresses and
support the stability of the Canadian financial system. It offers
eligible counterparties liquidity on a standing, bilateral basis against
securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of Canada or a
provincial government.

####  Balance sheet expansion

These interventions, which involve acquiring financial assets and
lending to financial institutions, increase the size of the Bank’s
[balance sheet][1]. This balance sheet expansion, in conjunction with
our other actions, helps get the financial system functioning properly.
A well-functioning financial system helps the economy recover once the
restrictions to contain the virus have been lifted.

   1. www.bankofcanada.ca/rates/banking-and-financial-statistics/bank-of-canada-assets-and-liabilities-weekly-formerly-b2/